Functionality Tests with device name (cdaudio)
        This runs through the funtionality of the mci cdaudio driver.
  It applies notifies, and waits, according to your choice on
  the Parameters! dialog.  Aliases are not used with this test, only
  the device name 'cdaudio' is used as the device parameter.  With terse
  logging all notification messages are logged s they are received, also
  all commands, return, and error strings will be logged. With verbose
  logging, in addition to the terse output, each component of the command
  string is logged also.

Functionality Tests with Alias
        This runs through the funtionality of the mci cdaudio driver.
  It applies aliases, notifies, and waits, according to your choice on
  the Parameters! dialog.  With terse logging all notification
  messages are logged s they are received, also all commands, return,
  and error strings will be logged. With verbose logging, in addition
  to the terse output, each component of the command string is logged also.

CD Mode Tests
        This will verify all the modes. This test case will verify that
  the correct mode is returned after valid and invalid commands and
  after mode changing and non-mode changing commands.  Note: This may
  return an error in some cases for example if a 'seek to end' is followed
  by a 'play', by the time a 'status cd mode' is executed, the cd may have
  reached the end and returned a 'stopped' instead of a 'playing'.

CD Information Tests
        This will run through all the valid (and some invalid) time formats
  it will then display the returned values for start position, end position,
  length, and number of tracks.  These may be verified by the tester for
  accuracy.  In Terse logging, only the values and time format are logged.
  In Verbose logging, the commands, return value, and error codes are shown.

CD Seek Tests
        This will perform a variety of seek operations in all time formats.
  The seek commands and the resulting position are logged in terse mode. In
  verbose mode, all commands, return values, and error strings are logged.
  These positions should be visually verified to insure that the driver
  performed rationally.  Note that there is generally some flux in the
  driver position, so it is normal to have a few milliseconds difference
  in separate position queries.

CD MCI Commands Tests (Non-Mode)
        This verifies that non-error values are returned for basic commands
   which include 'status', 'set', and 'capability' commands.  With Terse
   logging, only the commands and errors are logged.  With Verbose logging
   the command, return value, and error strings are logged.

CD Time Format Tests
        This test runs through all valid time formats and issues calls both
   valid and invalid and verifies that the time format is not changed until
   a new 'set cd time format xxx' is issued.  With Terse logging, only the
   commands and errors are logged.  With Verbose logging the command, return
   value, and error strings are logged.


CD MCI Capability Commands Tests
        This test will verify that the correct information is returned by
  the 'capability' and 'info' and some 'status' commands , all the
  verification is automatic. Any errors are logged in terse mode. In Verbose
  mode, each mci command is logged.


