Full Capability Test using driver name
        This test will run through all the capability commands for the
   videodisc, the device name will always be 'videodisc' (i.e. the Alias
   if any will be ignored) but the Notify and Wait parameters from the
   'Parameters' dialog will be used. In terse mode, all commands, return
   strings, and error strings will be logged as well as all notification
   messages.  In Verbose mode, each command component is displayed as it
   is parsed.

Full Capability Test using alias
        This test will run through all the capability commands for the
   videodisc, the device name will use the Alias, Notify and Wait parameters
   from the 'Parameters' dialog will be used. In terse mode, all commands,
   return strings, and error strings will be logged as well as all
   notification messages.  In Verbose mode, each command component is
   displayed as it is parsed.

Play device in different time formats
        This test will run through all the time formats and issue various
   commands in each of these time formats.  In terse mode, all commands,
   return strings, and error strings will be logged as well as all
   notification messages.  In Verbose mode, each command component is
   displayed as it is parsed.

Play videodisc from auto opened commands
        Various playing and seeking for an autoopened videodisc device.
   The Alias parameter (if any) selected from the 'Parameters!' is ignored.
   In terse mode, all commands, return strings, and error strings will
   be logged as well as all notification messages.  In Verbose mode,
   each command component is displayed as it is parsed.

Play videodisc from different states
        This will issue various play commands from different current
   modes using both 'videodisc' and the Alias as device names.In terse mode,
   all commands, return strings, and error strings will be logged as well
   as all notification messages.  In Verbose mode, each command component is
   displayed as it is parsed.

Play videodisc from invalid states
        This will issue various invalid play commands from different 
   modes using both 'videodisc' and the Alias as device names.  This is to
   verify that the current play speed/mode is not changed by invalid
   commands. In terse mode, all commands, return strings, and error
   strings will be logged as well as all notification messages.  In Verbose
   mode, each command component is displayed as it is parsed.

Play videdisc from different relative speeds
        This will issue various play commands from differenet relative
   speeds using both 'videodisc' and the Alias as device names.In terse mode,
   all commands, return strings, and error strings will be logged as well
   as all notification messages.  In Verbose mode, each command component is
   displayed as it is parsed.

