Copyrights Notice

Roland Corporation U.S. owns the Sound Set and all copyrights pertaining 
thereto and has licensed Microsoft to use the Sound Set solely on Microsoft 
Operating Systems Products and Microsoft Application Products.  Whenever 
this Sound Set, in whole or in part, is redistributed with your application, 
you must acknowledge Roland as the source in a user's standard point of entry 
to learn more about the product in use, such as in the "about"  or "get info" 
dialog boxes.  The minimum notice shall be "GM/GS® Sound Set © Copyright 1996 
Roland Corporation U.S."

Sound Set for General MIDI and GS Format

This Sound Set includes the necessary sounds to make a complete General MIDI 
compatible sound set.  It also includes additional sounds necessary to make 
a complete GS Format compatible sound set.

What is the GS Format?

The GS Format is a standardized set of specifications for sound sources that 
defines the manner in which multi-timbral sound generating devices will 
respond to MIDI messages.  The GS Format also complies with General MIDI 
System Level -1.  The GS Format also defines a number of other details over 
and above the features of General MIDI.  These include unique specifications 
for sound and functions available for tone editing, effects, and other 
specifications concerning the manner in which sound sources will respond to 
MIDI messages.  Any device that is equipped with GS Format sound sources can 
faithfully reproduce both General MIDI sound recordings and GS Format MIDI 
sound recordings.

How to Contact Roland (GS Format Developers only):

For more information, please contact:

Roland Corporation U.S.
7200 Dominion Circle
Los Angeles, CA  90040-3696

Phone:  213-685-5141
Fax:	   213-722-0911

Limitations

The Roland Sound Set may not be used, copied or redistributed in hardware 
ROM or similar technology of any device without the prior express written 
permission from an authorized representative of Roland Corporation U.S.  
This Sound Set may not be redistributed with any Musical Instrument (e.g., 
any device that is capable of generating musical sounds without being 
directly connected to a computer with a licensed Microsoft operating system).

Roland reserves all rights to the Sound Set not expressly granted by Roland 
Corporation U.S. or by Microsoft under the terms of Microsoft's end user 
license agreement.
