BookSale Sample Application

This project demonstrates the use of an ActiveX component to encapsulate the logic of business policies 
and rules and to provide "black box" services to an external User Interface component.  The client project 
is dedicated to delivering a clear and intuitive user interface for the user to select control options and view 
processing results.   The client project cares about how the user works and how they use the applications 
results, but it knows nothing about the business or operational rules of the application.  The server project 
is an ActiveX component dedicated to encapsulating business and data access rules into "sanctioned" 
services that client components use to find the information they need.  The server component has no idea 
how the user options are selected or how the results are presented to the user.  This lack of specific user 
knowledge helps keep the server component’s functionality general... and as a result should increases its 
reusability potential (in a real project) for other applications.  It also uses Class modules to structure the 
logic of its business and data access rules in a manner that aids development, debugging, readability, 
maintainability, and source code reusability.

The ActiveX component can be run on the same machine as the client component, (which can be a 
significant aid in the development and debugging phases of a project), or it can be run on a remote machine 
to benefit from the distributed processing power and multi-user access features of a shared network server.  
The component does not need to be recompiled or changed in any way to support this location 
independence.

Note: The ActiveX server component in this project uses a visible form purely for demo/status purposes. 
There is no functional need for the component to have any UI, though state information presented through 
a UI can help with debugging or runtime monitoring needs.  (State monitoring requirements could also be 
addressed by providing a status method on the server that could be queried by a monitor application.)

