Microsoft(R) Windows
User's Guide

Version 2.0


Microsoft Corporation

Information in this document is subject to change without notice and does
not represent a commitment on the part of Microsoft Corporation. The
software described in this document is furnished under a license agreement
or nondisclosure agreement. The soft-
ware may be used or copied only in accordance with the terms of the
agreement. The purchaser may make one copy of the soft-
ware for backup purposes. No part of this manual may be repro-
duced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical,
including photocopying and recording, for any purpose other than the
purchaser's personal use without the written permission of Microsoft
Corporation.


(C) Copyright Microsoft Corporation, 1987. All rights reserved.
Simultaneously published in the U.S. and Canada.

If you have comments about this documentation, complete the Documentation
Feedback card at the back of this manual and return it to Microsoft. If you
have comments about the software, complete the Product Assistance Request
form that is included in the Microsoft Windows package and return it to
Microsoft.


Microsoft(R), the Microsoft logo, Multiplan(R), and MS-DOS(R) are
registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.

AST RAMPage(TM) is a trademark of AST Research, Incorporated.

CompuServe(R) is a registered trademark of CompuServe Corporation.

dBase II(R) is a registered trademark of Ashton-Tate.

Dow Jones News/Retrieval(R) is a registered trademark of Dow Jones &
Company, Incorporated.

Epson(R) is a registered trademark of Epson America, Incorporated.

Hercules(TM) is a trademark of Hercules Computer Technology.

Hewlett-Packard(R) is a registered trademark of Hewlett-Packard
Corporation.

IBM(R) is a registered trademark and TopView(TM) is a trademark of
International Business Machines Corporation.

INTEL(R) is a registered trademark and Above(TM) is a trademark of Intel
Corporation.

LIGHTNING(TM) is a trademark of Personal Computer Support Group,
Incorporated.

Lotus(R) and 1-2-3(R) are registered trademarks and Symphony(TM) is a
trademark of Lotus Development Corporation.

MultiMate(R) is a registered trademark of Multimate International
Corporation, an Ashton-Tate company.

PageMaker(R) is a registered trademark of Aldus Corporation.
Okidata(R) is a registered trademark of Okidata America Company.

Sidekick(R) is a registered trademark of Borland International.

The SourceSM is a service mark of Source Telecomputing Corporation.

Vcache(TM) is a trademark of Golden Bow Systems.

Document Number 050050051-200-R01-0887

























































