Application Wizard Notes


The code for the application's main program is based on a template stored in the APPWIZ.DBF table. If you open the APPWIZ.DBF table, you'll see a record in which the Type field contains the words "STARTUP PROGRAM." The template for the application main program is in the Data1 field of that record (a memo field).

In the program template you'll see placeholders for data filled in by the Application Wizard. The placeholders are surrounded by *< and >*. For example, one placeholder is *<Initalize>*. If you compare the contents of Data1 with a main program generated by the Application Wizard, you can see that the *<Initialize>* line was replaced with these lines:


	goApp.SetCaption("test")
	goApp.cStartupMenu="d:\foo\menus\test"
	goApp.cStartupForm="forms\test"


The specific values used to fill in these are determined by the Application Wizard entries when you choose Finish. 

You can change program template to suit your needs. Alternatively. You can change the finished program in the generated application; this saves you the trouble of re-running the Application Wizard.

The application's main menu (project.MNX) is generated by the Application Wizard from the template menu called APPWIZ.MNX.

All APPWIZ.* files are installed (with source) in the Visual FoxPro WIZARDS directory. You can modify these files as required to have control over how the Application Wizard generates your applications. 

Additional information is stored in APPWIZ.DBF, such as the names of the directories that the wizard creates (LIBS, DATA, FORMS, etc.). You can edit the records in the APPWIZ.DBF file to configure the application. For example, to change the name of the directory in which the wizard stores forms, edit the record that contains "FORMS DIRECTORY" in the Type field. In the Data1 field, enter a new name. If you change the name to "myforms," the wizard stores forms using a path such as in \MYAPP\MYFORMS\TEST.SCX instead of the default \MYAPP\FORMS\TEST.SCX.

The following describes the files used by the Application Wizard.

WZAPP.APP. Application Wizard.

APPWIZ.PJX (and APPWIZ.PJT). Template used to create the project in the new application.

APPWIZ.DBF (and APPWIZ.FPT). Repository for Application Wizard preferences.

APPWIZ.MNX (and APPWIZ.MNT). Template menu used to create main menu in new application.

APPWIZ.VCX (and APPWIZ.VCT). Class library containing all application framework classes.

APPWIZ.H. Template header file that is copied to the new project (marked excluded); it is not referenced by any project files automatically.

WZAPP.TXT. This text file.


If you reinstall Visual FoxPro, you will overwrite changes you make to these files, so keep a backup after you have modified them. The files you are likeliest to modify are APPWIZ.DBF (and APPWIZ.FPT), which not only contains the startup program template, but other settings as well about the database template including customized directory names.
