             Windows 95 Display Certification Tests
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Certification Tests are provided to improve the quality of
Windows Device Drivers by providing test suites to hardware vendors
for use in testing their drivers.

What's New For Windows 95 DCT?? 
----------------------------------
* Make sure you check out the MODETOOL.TXT in the \ct\dct\misc dir!!!

Other information, please see documents in CT\DOC\DCT.

 * New tests (documentation in CT\DOC):
   DTA No Longer Needs [Unused Bits= 1]
   The ROP3 test used to fail on display drivers that did not process
   all bits at a given color depth.  DTA now compensates for this situation
   automatically.


   BugZapper
   Generic test execution system.  Presently this only tests a mini
   driver's ability to forward Escapes onto the DibEngine.

   GUIMAN Display Tests
   Adapted from the NT Certification tests, this application plays
   enhanced metafiles of all sorts.

   Check ESI/EDI
   Display drivers need to preserve these 2 registers across calls.  By using
   a debug version of GDI, this test application can detect when a display
   driver does not preserve these 2 registers.

   ISV Automated Tests
   Automated tests are provided for some ISV applications.  The CT tests do
   not ship with these applications, it is the user's responsibility to
   purchase and install the ISV application's they wish to test.  It is
   recommended that the application be installed prior to installation of
   the CT tests (see ISVTESTS.DOC for more information).

   Stress Mode Tests
   Tests found under this group are similar to the smoke and verify
   counterparts with the exception that more data files are used.  For example
   in the case of DibView bitmap test, all the bitmaps in the
   \DDK\CT\COMMON\DIBVIEW directory are used.  In the case of DTA, DTA is
   run in a mode where it randomly chooses GDI primitives until the user
   stops the test.

Installing The Certification Tests
----------------------------------
Certification tests can be the CDROM or installed to your
hard disk via the setup program CTSETUP.EXE.  If you install the DCT
to your hard disk, you will need approximately 90M of free disk space.  
This has grown quite a bit due to the inclusion of AVI files and metafiles 
for the GUIMAN tests.


Running The Certification Tests
-------------------------------
When the CTSETUP program completes, it will setup one or more CTSHELL
program items (hammer and pliers).  Certification tests are run from
the CT SHELL which provides a way of tracking pass/fail information
from each test and also provides a way of cueing tests and executing
them in an automated fashion.

The CTSETUP program might also create program items featuring
individual CT test applications used by the CTSHELL.  These are
provided so that you can easily focus on a specific application you
are having problems with without running the CTSHELL.


Certification Tests Using ISV Applications
------------------------------------------
Windows 95 certification tests include automated test scripts for many
popular ISV applications, but don't include the ISV application itself.
Driver developers are responsible for purchasing and installing the ISV
applications themselves.

CTSETUP.EXE will look in WIN.INI to find the location of the ISV
application and ask the user for the location if necessary. CTSETUP will
then create an data file which is used by the automation scripts to
learn the location of the ISV application.

You don't need to have all supported ISV applications in order to run
ISV automation scripts.


Certification Test Documentation
--------------------------------
All documentation is located in the CT\DOC\DCT directory These files can be
viewed using WORDPAD.EXE which is shipped with Windows 95.
